Add OpenAPI binary file response documentation for ASP.NET Core 11.0 (#36754)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/openapi/includes/include-metadata10.md

The following sections demonstrate how to include metadata in an app to customize the generated OpenAPI document.

### Summary and description

The endpoint summary and description can be set using the [`[EndpointSummary]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.EndpointSummaryAttribute) and [`[EndpointDescription]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.EndpointDescriptionAttribute) attributes,
or in Minimal APIs, using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.WithSummary%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.WithDescription%2A> extension methods.

#### [Minimal APIs](#tab/minimal-apis)

The following sample demonstrates the different strategies for setting summaries and descriptions.

Note that the attributes are placed on the delegate method and not on the app.MapGet method.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/extension-methods", () => "Hello world!")
    .WithSummary("This is a summary.")
    .WithDescription("This is a description.");

app.MapGet("/attributes",
    [EndpointSummary("This is a summary.")]
    [EndpointDescription("This is a description.")]
    () => "Hello world!");
```

#### [Controllers](#tab/controllers)

> The following sample demonstrates how to set summaries and descriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sample demonstrates how to set summaries and descriptions:
```

If the endpoint doesn't define any parameters bound to the request body, but instead consumes the request body from the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext> directly, ASP.NET Core provides mechanisms to specify request body metadata. This is a common scenario for endpoints that process the request body as a stream.

Some request body metadata can be determined from the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) or [`FromForm`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromFormAttribute) parameters of the route handler method.

A description for the request body can be set with a [`[Description]`](xref:System.ComponentModel.DescriptionAttribute) attribute on the parameter with [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) or [`FromForm`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromFormAttribute).

> If the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) parameter is non-nullable and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute.EmptyBodyBehavior> is not set to <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ModelBinding.EmptyBodyBehavior.Allow> in the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) attribute, the request body is required and the `required` field of the `requestBody` is set to `true` in the generated OpenAPI document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) parameter is non-nullable and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute.EmptyBodyBehavior> isn't set to <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ModelBinding.EmptyBodyBehavior.Allow> in the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) attribute, the request body is required, and the `required` field of the `requestBody` is set to `true` in the generated OpenAPI document.
```

Form bodies are always required and have `required` set to `true`.

Use a [document transformer](xref:fundamentals/openapi/customize-openapi#use-document-transformers) or an [operation transformer](xref:fundamentals/openapi/customize-openapi#use-operation-transformers) to set the `example`, `examples`, or `encoding` fields, or to add specification extensions for the request body in the generated OpenAPI document.

Other mechanisms for setting request body metadata depend on the type of app being developed and are described in the following sections.

#### [Minimal APIs](#tab/minimal-apis)

> The content types for the request body in the generated OpenAPI document are determined from the type of the parameter that is bound to the request body or specified with the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.Accepts%2A> extension method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content types for the request body in the generated OpenAPI document are determined from the type of the parameter bound to the request body or specified with the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.Accepts%2A> extension method.
```

By default, the content type of a [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) parameter will be `application/json` and the content type for [`FromForm`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromFormAttribute) parameter(s) will be `multipart/form-data` or `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`.

Support for these default content types is built in to Minimal APIs, and other content types can be handled by using custom binding.

> See the [Custom binding](xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis/parameter-binding#custom-binding) topic of the Minimal APIs documentation for more information.

Reviewer: Just a Blazor node convention these days, but I usually just link the article (title link text) and let the bookmark get the reader to the correct section. Under the INCLUDES versioning system, it's a sketchy idea leaving the link to get the reader to the right section when the links all break for prior release content. Anyway, this would be the Blazor convention for these sorts of links.

Also, these two lines should be in one paragraph ...

```suggestion
Support for these default content types is built in to Minimal APIs, and other content types can be handled by using custom binding. For more information, see <xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis/parameter-binding#custom-binding>.
```

There are several ways to specify a different content type for the request body.
If the type of the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) parameter implements <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointParameterMetadataProvider>, ASP.NET Core uses this interface to determine the content type(s) in the request body.

> The framework uses the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointMetadataProvider.PopulateMetadata%2A> method of this interface to set the content type(s) and type of the body content of the request body. For example, a `Todo` class that accepts either `application/xml` or `text/xml` content-type can use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointParameterMetadataProvider> to provide this information to the framework.

Reviewer: Spacing ...

```suggestion
There are several ways to specify a different content type for the request body.

If the type of the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) parameter implements <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointParameterMetadataProvider>, ASP.NET Core uses this interface to determine the content type(s) in the request body. The framework uses the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointMetadataProvider.PopulateMetadata%2A> method of this interface to set the content types and type of the body content of the request body. For example, a `Todo` class that accepts either `application/xml` or `text/xml` content-type can use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointParameterMetadataProvider> to provide this information to the framework.
```

ASP.NET Core uses an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.InputFormatter> to deserialize a [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) request body.
InputFormatters are configured in the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.MvcOptions> passed to the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.MvcServiceCollectionExtensions.AddControllers%2A> extension method for the app's service collection.
Each input formatter declares the content types it can handle, in its <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.InputFormatter.SupportedMediaTypes> property, and the type(s) of body content it can handle, with its <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.InputFormatter.CanReadType%2A> method.

ASP.NET Core MVC includes built-in input formatters for JSON and XML, though only the JSON input formatter is enabled by default.
The built-in JSON input formatter supports the `application/json`, `text/json`, and `application/*+json` content types, and the built-in XML input formatter supports the `application/xml`, `text/xml`, and `application/*+xml` content types.

> By default, the content type of a [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) request body may be any content type accepted by an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.InputFormatter> for the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) parameter type. For a request body with [`FromForm`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromFormAttribute) parameter(s) the default content types are `multipart/form-data` or `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`.These content types will be included in the generated OpenAPI document if the [`[Consumes]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ConsumesAttribute) attribute is not specified on the route handler method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the content type of a [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) request body may be any content type accepted by an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.InputFormatter> for the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) parameter type. For a request body with [`FromForm`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromFormAttribute) parameters the default content types are `multipart/form-data` or `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`. These content types are included in the generated OpenAPI document if the [`[Consumes]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ConsumesAttribute) attribute isn't specified on the route handler method.
```

| `TypedResults` helper method | Status code |
| ---------------------------- | ----------- |
| Ok()                         | 200         |
| Created()                    | 201         |
| CreatedAtRoute()             | 201         |
| Accepted()                   | 202         |
| AcceptedAtRoute()            | 202         |
| NoContent()                  | 204         |
| BadRequest()                 | 400         |
| ValidationProblem()          | 400         |
| NotFound()                   | 404         |
| Conflict()                   | 409         |
| UnprocessableEntity()        | 422         |

All of these methods except `NoContent` have a generic overload that specifies the type of the response body.

A class can be implemented to set the endpoint metadata and return it from the route handler.

##### Set responses for `ProblemDetails`

When setting the response type for endpoints that may return a ProblemDetails response, the following can be used to add the appropriate response metadata for the endpoint:

> * <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.ProducesProblem%2A>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.ProducesProblem%2A>.
```

* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.ProducesValidationProblem%2A> extension method.
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TypedResults> with a status code in the (400-499) range.

For more information on how to configure a Minimal API app to return ProblemDetails responses, see <xref:fundamentals/error-handling-api>.

##### Multiple response types

If an endpoint can return different response types in different scenarios, you can provide metadata in the following ways:

* Call the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.Produces%2A> extension method multiple times, as shown in the following example:

  [!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/samples/todo/Program.cs?name=snippet_getCustom)]

* Use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpResults.Results%606> in the signature and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TypedResults> in the body of the handler, as shown in the following example:

  :::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/minimal-apis/samples/MultipleResultTypes/Program.cs" id="snippet_multiple_result_types":::

>   The `Results<TResult1,TResult2,TResultN>` [union types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_type) declare that a route handler returns multiple `IResult`-implementing concrete types, and any of those types that implement <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointMetadataProvider> will contribute to the endpoint’s metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `Results<TResult1,TResult2,TResultN>` [union types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_type) declare that a route handler returns multiple `IResult`-implementing concrete types, and any of those types that implement <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointMetadataProvider> contribute to the endpoint’s metadata.
```

#### [Controllers](#tab/controllers)

In controller-based apps, ASP.NET Core can extract the response metadata from the action method signature, attributes, and conventions. 

* You can use the [`[ProducesResponseType]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesResponseTypeAttribute) or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesResponseTypeAttribute%601> attribute to specify the status code, the type of the response body, and content type(s) of a response from an action method.
* You can use the [`[Produces]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesAttribute) or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesAttribute%601> attribute to specify the type of the response body.
* You can use the [`[ProducesDefaultResponseType]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesDefaultResponseTypeAttribute) attribute to specify the response body type for the "default" response.

> * You can use the [`[ProducesErrorResponseType]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesErrorResponseTypeAttribute) attribute to specify the response body type for an error response. However, be aware that this is only complements the status code and content type(s) specified by an [`[ProducesResponseType]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesResponseTypeAttribute) attribute with a 4XX status code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can use the [`[ProducesErrorResponseType]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesErrorResponseTypeAttribute) attribute to specify the response body type for an error response. However, this is only complements the status code and content types specified by an [`[ProducesResponseType]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesResponseTypeAttribute) attribute with a 4XX status code.
```

| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |                                  
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |   pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?$"`
 -->

If the app is configured to produce OpenAPI 3.0 or OpenAPI v2 documents, where the `type` field cannot have an array value, the `type` field is dropped.

When the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property is set to `JsonNumberHandling.Strict`, the numeric types are mapped as follows:

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type` | OpenAPI `format` |
| -------------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| int            | integer        | int32            |
| long           | integer        | int64            |
| short          | integer        | int16            |
| byte           | integer        | uint8            |
| float          | number         | float            |
| double         | number         | double           |
| decimal        | number         | double           |

#### String types

> The following table shows how C# types map to `string` type properties in the generated OpenAPI document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows how C# types map to `string` type properties in the generated OpenAPI document.
```

| -------------- | -------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ |
| string         | string         |                  | |
| char           | string         | char             | minLength: 1, maxLength: 1 |
| byte[]         | string         | byte             | |
| DateTimeOffset | string         | date-time        | |
| DateOnly       | string         | date             | |
| TimeOnly       | string         | time             | |
| Uri            | string         | uri              | |
| Guid           | string         | uuid             | |

#### Other types

Other C# types are represented in the generated OpenAPI document as shown in the following table:

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type` | OpenAPI `format` |
| -------------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| bool           | boolean        |                  |
| object         | _omitted_      |                  |
| dynamic        | _omitted_      |                  |

### Use attributes to add metadata

ASP.NET uses metadata from attributes on class or record properties to set metadata on the corresponding properties of the generated schema.

> The following table summarizes attributes from the `System.ComponentModel` namespace that provide metadata for the generated schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table summarizes attributes from the `System.ComponentModel` namespace that provide metadata for the generated schema.
```

The following example demonstrates how to use a `JsonStringEnumConverter` to represent an enum as a string in JSON:

```csharp
[JsonConverter(typeof(JsonStringEnumConverter<DayOfTheWeekAsString>))]
public enum DayOfTheWeekAsString
{
    Sunday,
    Monday,
    Tuesday,
    Wednesday,
    Thursday,
    Friday,
    Saturday
}
```

A special case is when an enum type has the `[Flags]` attribute, which indicates that the enum can be treated as a bit field; that is, a set of flags. A flags `enum` with a `[JsonConverterAttribute]` is defined as `type: string` in the generated schema with no `enum` property. No `enum` property is generated because the value could be any combination of the enum values. For example, the following `enum` could have values such as `"Pepperoni, Sausage"` or `"Sausage, Mushrooms, Anchovies"`:

```csharp
[Flags, JsonConverter(typeof(JsonStringEnumConverter<PizzaToppings>))]
public enum PizzaToppings { 
    Pepperoni = 1,
    Sausage = 2,
    Mushrooms = 4,
    Anchovies = 8
}
```

> An enum type without a  [`[JsonConverter]`](xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.JsonConverterAttribute) will be defined as `type: integer` in the generated schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An enum type without a  [`[JsonConverter]`](xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.JsonConverterAttribute) is defined as `type: integer` in the generated schema.
```

An abstract class with a [`[JsonPolymorphic]`](xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.JsonPolymorphicAttribute) attribute has a `discriminator` field in the schema, but a concrete class with a [`[JsonPolymorphic]`](xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.JsonPolymorphicAttribute) attribute doesn't have a `discriminator` field. OpenAPI requires that the discriminator property be a required property in the schema, but since the discriminator property isn't defined in the concrete base class, the schema cannot include a `discriminator` field.

### Add metadata with a schema transformer

A schema transformer can be used to override any default metadata or add additional metadata, such as `example` values, to the generated schema. See [Use schema transformers](xref:fundamentals/openapi/customize-openapi#use-schema-transformers) for more information.

## Set JSON serialization options globally

The following code configures some JSON options globally, for Minimal APIs and Controller based APIs:

  [!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/openapi/samples/10.x/WebJson/Program.cs?highlight=9-29)]

## MVC JSON options and global JSON options

> The following table shows the key differences beween the MVC JSON options and global Minimal API JSON options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the key differences beween the MVC JSON options and global Minimal API JSON options.
```
